Okay,
guys on Welcome back Now,
Technically,
this is student questions answered lecture.
But it fits so nicely into the worksheets and workbook events section.
I've decided to drop it right in here.
Now the question comes from Daymo on.
It relates to drop down menu.
So says simple question when I click on the drop down menu is,
and I would like the curse that to move them to the next cell.
Now,
what happens when when you hit enter in a cell in Excel by default,
it will move down to the cell immediately below it.
But if you are selecting a value from a drop down list,
the cell with the drop down list remains selected.
The South beat the curse that does not move down to the next cell,
so that's the basis of the question.
So at what I did was,
I went to the Microsoft website this one here,
and you'll find a link to this certain this website in the code on bond on.
This is a fantastic resource,
by the way.
If you just send to your question into Google,
chances are that Microsoft have already got a piece of code that you can adapt to make fit
your needs.
And this is the particular code here.
So I took this code,
and that's also in the spreadsheet,
which you'll see just here.
Now this sheets available is downloadable resource I've uploaded this morning and what
you'll see it's called worksheet events.
Bonus on.
We've got a few sheets on here.
We have a guide,
which is this sheet,
and this tells you where to get your code.
From on.
We have four working sheets.
Specific cell changes,
specific cell toe unlocked.
Use the cell change by criteria on value changes by formula on,
we have tubs,
one with all the code for sheet one to with all the code for sheet to three for three and
four for four.
So all I've done is I took this code here,
and I've pasted it into the sheet object in V B A.
So let's have a look.
So all the code from number one has been pasted into this sheet code for this sheet here.
So all the code for number one is there.
All the code from number two is pasted in here.
All the code for number three spaces in here and all the code for number four is pasted in
here.
So let's have a look at this code.
This is the original,
but this is the original code from Marks Off Website on There's the link to that.
And here's the adopted code.
So all I've done is I've rimmed out,
and if it's rammed on the far left hand side,
that's the original code from Microsoft.
On one of said is I've changed this part here and now I am only looking at Cell C one.
So that is the value cell I am looking to change.
So this cell changes,
then perform the rest of the code this straight from the Microsoft website,
and all I've done is,
I've just added a different instruction on what to do if that cell value changes.
So what I've said is range target dot address,
which is going to be C one offset one comma zero that is moved down one cell.
So let's have a look at that working now here.
I have a simple list of some of my friends at work,
and here I have a drop down list that is in B one.
So when I pick Brent from here.
Notice that the curse of stays in B one,
but here,
see one,
which is where the code is looking,
remember?
See one.
Just hear.
What we have is if I pick Sandeep,
notice what happens to the cursor.
It immediately moves down to the cell below so you can carry on.
Typing will have another drop down box.
So cool.
Piece of code number one Piece of code number two.
Now,
this is what what day most question actually relates to here.
I have a drop down on Dhere.
I have a locked cell.
Here is an unlocked cell.
Here is another locked cell.
And here is another unlocked cell.
So if you want to bounce people as soon as they've answered one drop down list to another
drop down list to another drop down list,
this is how we all do it on.
I've used the code that you'll find in sheet to here,
so let's just flip back to that and have a quick look at the code.
So here we go again.
I've adapted exactly that same code.
If it's rammed there,
right on the left.
That's the original mocha self code on Dhere.
We're looking at set key cells to rain.
See,
once I'm only looking at C one again.
This is just a standard mark stuff code.
But this time I'm saying range target address,
See?
One next dot Select Noticed that that differs from this code that says offset one dot
select.
Now,
if you use the offset one,
it will still select a locked cell.
So if you want to move,
if you want to move over a lot cell to the next clickable cell.
Use this code here range target dot address next dot select.
So that's going to have a look at that in action.
So here I have a drop down list.
And if I pick Becky,
notice what happens to the care,
so it's immediately drops down to the next unlocked cell.
Okay,
so piece of code number to their piece of code number three.
Let me just flip back,
Teoh said the code in windows and show you this number three use of cell changes by
criteria.
Again,
I've just butchered the normal Microsoft Code that I stole from their website.
But here we have a logical test that I've added in So we're looking at Selby three.
What we're going to say is if key cells value is greater than 10,000 display the message
box.
That's a lot of Mullah.
So let's come back here.
And we're just so we can type anything we want over here because we're only looking at
Selby three and nothing is gonna happen in the code.
So if I come up here at night,
type 499 hit,
enter,
nothing's gonna happen.
But if I breach that 10,000 rule,
this is what's gonna happen.
We'll get a little pop up books.
It says Mark stuff Excel.
That's a lot of moolah.
Okay,
so you can actually check the value of a cell to trigger an event.
Now,
that's fine.
But look,
what happens if I do this equals the sum off.
Let's say that three cells below and he as I type 1000 and one or 10,000 won the code
didn't trigger because this is a formula on what we're actually looking for With this
particular piece of code is if we change the value manually,
trigger the code.
So piece of code number three piece code number four does exactly the same thing,
but it uses a formula.
So let's have a look.
A piece of code number four on this is quite simple,
but we use a different kind of event.
We use that worksheet calculate event,
which you'll find just up here.
Well,
we're going to say check be three to see if it breaches 10,000 on.
Remember,
this is a worksheet calculate.
So if B three is greater than 10,000 display the message box.
I am rich,
baby.
So let's have a look at this.
So this is just an imaginary bank account.
So let's say I had I had a new value in here.
Let's say it's the 16th of February on what do we want to reach 10,000 and hit?
Enter.
I am rich baby on There you go because this is now a calculated cell and no cell that we
type in it displays.
Our message now obviously can use this for any number of things you could have ah,
running balance.
Perhaps that would trigger an email if you drop below a certain and managed to send an
email to your finance director,
say Hey,
funds are running low or any kind of code like that which will come to later in the course
.
Okay,
as always.
Any questions?
Just let me know.
Have a great day and I'll see you in the next lecture.